---
title: "homework 1"
date: 2025-02-22 23:02:59 +0800
last_modified_at: 2025-03-19 15:51:53 +0800
categories: [Philosophy, Foundations of Logic]
math: true
tags: [note]
---
>这是我在 “Foundations of Logic” 课程中的笔记的一部分, 这门课的笔记试验性地深度使用了 Obsidian 中 Breadcrumbs 插件的有向链接功能, 使得整个笔记结构几乎不可能被搬到这个网站上. 在此展示的只是一部分较长的笔记, 参考价值不大.
{: .prompt-info}

---

>Author
>
>樊隽涵 2023012322
{: .prompt-info}

---


>Exercise 2.4.2
{: .prompt-tip}

Given: 

$$\text{(8): }V(\varphi)=1\text{ iff }V\vDash\varphi$$

$$ \text{(ii): } V\vDash\lnot\varphi\text{ iff }V\not\vDash\varphi$$

Thus: 

$$V(\varphi)=0\leftrightarrow V\not\models \varphi\leftrightarrow V\not\models \varphi\leftrightarrow V(\neg\varphi)=1$$

Replace $$\varphi$$ with $$\neg\phi$$, and $$\neg \neg \phi=\phi$$:

$$ V(\phi)=1\leftrightarrow V(\neg \phi)=0 $$

For all conditions($$\phi=1/0$$), 

$$V(\phi)+V(\neg\phi)\equiv1,\leftrightarrow V(\neg \phi)=1-V(\phi)\Box$$

Similarly, prove the $$\varphi \land \psi$$ condition by truth table: 

$$\begin{array}{ccc}V(\varphi)&V(\psi)&V(\varphi \land\psi)&V(\varphi)\cdot V(\psi)&\max\left\{ V(\varphi),V(\psi) \right\} \\1&1&1&1&1\\1&0&0&0&0\\0&1&0&0&0\\0&0&0&0&0\end{array}$$

The definitions of $$\varphi \lor \psi$$ and $$\varphi\to \psi$$ can be (not unique)：

$$ V(\varphi \lor \psi)=\max\left\{ V(\varphi),V(\psi) \right\}=1-(1-V(\varphi))\cdot(1-V(\psi))  $$

$$ V(\varphi\to \psi)=1-[(V(\varphi)\cdot (1-V(\psi)) ]=\max \left\{ (1-V(\varphi)),\psi \right\}  $$

>Check that the equivalences (a) and (b) hold in PL for all formulas $$\varphi,\psi{:}$$
>a) $$( \varphi \leftrightarrow \psi ) \leftrightarrow \psi \equiv \varphi$$
>(b) $$\neg \varphi \equiv \varphi \leftrightarrow \bot$$
>(c) What does (a) ‘say’ when we let $$\psi$$ be $$\bot?$$
{: .prompt-tip}

- If $$\varphi\leftrightarrow \psi$$ is true, then $$\varphi$$ and $$\psi$$ has the same value.
	- $$V(\varphi)=1\leftrightarrow V(\psi)=1\leftrightarrow V(\underbracket{ ( \varphi \leftrightarrow \psi ) }_{ \text{true} } \leftrightarrow \psi)=1,\Box$$
	- $$V(\varphi)=0\leftrightarrow V(\psi)=0\leftrightarrow V(\underbracket{ ( \varphi \leftrightarrow \psi ) }_{ \text{true} }=0\Box$$ 
- Similarly, if $$V(\varphi\leftrightarrow \psi)$$ is false:
	- $$V(\varphi)=1\leftrightarrow V(\psi)=0\leftrightarrow V(\underbracket{ ( \varphi \leftrightarrow \psi ) }_{ \text{false} } \leftrightarrow \psi)=1,\Box$$
	- $$V(\varphi)=0\leftrightarrow V(\psi)=1\leftrightarrow V(\underbracket{ ( \varphi \leftrightarrow \psi ) }_{ \text{false} } \leftrightarrow \psi)=0,\Box$$

*I use these “$$\leftrightarrow$$s” according to my habits in mathematical proofs, but this notation may not be reasonable in logic. *

>Exercise 2.4.13.
{: .prompt-tip}
- No woman likes every man.
	- 

$$\neg \exists a(Wa\land\forall b(Mb\land Lab))$$

- Harry likes no one except himself.
	- 

$$ \forall a(Ha\leftrightarrow  Lha) $$

- Every man likes some woman that she has not met.
	- 

$$ \forall a(Ma\to\exists b(Wb,\neg M'ab\land Lab)) $$

- Nina likes Jim only if he likes no one else.
	- 

$$ Like(nj)\to \forall b(\neg Nb\to \neg Ljb)$$

- Every logician who wrote a paper wants to publish it.
	- 

$$ \forall a\forall p(La\land Pp\land Wrote(ap)\to Publish(ap)) $$

- If a logician meets a linguist they start arguing.
	- 

$$ \forall a\forall b((Logician(a) \land Linguist(b)\land Mab)\to Aab) $$

>Draw a diagram of the interpretation $$\mathcal{M}=(M,P^{\mathcal{M}},R_1^{\mathcal{M}},R_2^{\mathcal{M}})$$, where
{: .prompt-tip}
$$M=\{a_1,\ldots,a_5\}$$, and the 1-ary $$P$$ and the 2-ary $$R_1$$ and $$R_2$$ are interpreted as follows: $$\begin{aligned}P^{\mathcal{M}}=\{a_4,a_5\},~R_1^{\mathcal{M}}=\{(a_1,a_2),(a_1,a_4),(a_5,a_1)\},\mathrm{~and}\end{aligned}$$ $$R_2^{\mathcal{M}}=\{(a_2,a_3),(a_5,a_3)\}.$$ Draw the two relations with different kinds of arrows (for example, use a dotted arrow for $$R_2$$). Which of the following sentences are true in $$\mathcal{M}?$$

$$\begin{aligned}&\mathrm{a.}\quad\forall x(Px\to\exists yR_1xy)\\&\mathrm{b.}\quad\exists x\forall y(\neg R_1xy\land\neg R_2xy)\\&\mathrm{c.}\quad\exists x\forall y\neg R_1yx\\&\mathrm{d.}\quad\exists x\exists y\exists z\exists u(Px\land\neg Pu\land R_1xy\land R_1yz\land R_2zu)\end{aligned}$$

!*IMG_3520.jpeg*
a. false
b. true
c. true
d. true(x, y, z, u is $$a_{5},a_{1},a_{2},a_{3}$$)

>Exercise 2.4.17.
{: .prompt-tip}
1. Not true. Equality is transitive.，so when $$\Gamma=\{ a=b,b=c \}$$ and $$\varphi=\left\{ a=c \right\}$$, $$\varphi$$ id the logic consequence of $$\Gamma$$.
2. Not true, In FOL, atom sentences with equality can be formed without "=", for example, $$a=b$$ becomes $$(a\to b)\land(b\to a)$$

>Exercise 2.4.10.
{: .prompt-tip}
- The target is to flip the result of n-degree fomula.
	- degree =0:
		- $$\varphi=a$$: just flip $$V(a)$$.
		- $$\varphi=\neg a$$: just flip $$V(a)$$.
		- 0-degree $$\varphi$$ is flippable.($$\exists V'\text{s.t.}(V(\varphi)+V'(\varphi)=1)$$)
	- degree=n+1
		- Assume that n-degree $$\varphi$$ is flippable,
		- Assume that n-degree $$\varphi$$ doesn't contain $$q$$.
		- For $$\varphi \land q,{}\varphi \lor q,{}\varphi\to q,{}q\to \varphi,{}q\leftrightarrow \varphi$$:
			- According to the Locality Lemma, We can separately append ($$V\to V'$$)and($$V(q)\to{1}-V(q)$$) to $$\varphi$$ and $$q$$, and they won't influence the value of the other part.
			- We can flip the result of (n+1)-degree $$\varphi$$ by the way we flip $$a\lor b,a\land b\cdots$$,which is obviously possible.
			- (n+1)-degree $$\varphi$$ is flippable.
	- Induction: $$\varphi$$ is flippable if each sentence letter that occurs in $$\varphi$$ only occurs once.
- If $$V(\varphi)=1$$, there must be a V' that satisfies $$V'(\varphi)=0$$
- 

$$ \boxed{ \not\models \varphi} $$

 